For this final project, my initial vision was to create a game with the Phaser 3 engine and be able to control some elements with a webcam using ml5. Unfortunately, I had trouble to link ml5 and instead used Json for animations in Phaser 3's engine. To start with, I inspired myself with another game I developed at the end of another course. From there, I began integrating spells, telekinesis and fireballs to be able to interact with the environment. The first one took a lot of time since I had trouble throughout the integration. First, I began using the mouse to move things around. Since both the physics engine uses Drag as a value and the mouse functionality is also called drag, I had some mixup through my code. I made a small sandbox for me to be able to manipulate multiple type of objects, such as an immovable one, an heavy one and a floating one which I could then use for the game. For the fireball, I created 2 classes, one to keep track of their configuration and another for their movement. I was then able to only manipulate the one spawned like and object instead of a sprite managed by the game engine. Once both were completed, I started to work on the game itself. To change from my habits of making a traditional bullet hell type game, I got my inspiration from Prey and Dishonered, where the goal is to interact with the environment to progress through the game. I then decided to develop an escape room type game where the puzzles are based around game mechanics and the interaction between the objects.

The controls are the established 'WASD' to move around and the mouse to use the spells. Both spells can be chosen by pressing the '1' or '2' key.

The objective is to activate the portal gate in the middle of the room by placing both the fire and ice gems on their pedestal. The first puzzle is with the potion and the cauldron. The player must collide both objects which will then create a cloud platform floating to the office at the top for the player to grab the ice gem. A wooden door is in the way which the player must burn with a fireball. The player can then bring and place the gem unto the pedestal. For the fire gem, the player has to burn the platform in the upper left section so a ladder can fall. The player can reach the balcony where the fire gem is placed. By being in the rain, the fire gem must be activated by launching a fireball at it. It can then be place on the fire pedestal for the portal to activate.

To limit the player, I had to create a maximum length for the telekinesis spell. I placed a circle around the player to indicate the limit of the spell's reach since Phaser cannot release the 'clickDown' input and only reintegrate the physics to the object once it's out of reach. With an indication, it motivates the player to keep the object within the spell's range. I also decided to use the lighting effect of Phaser 3 to better show the points of interest to the player. The important parts such as the potion, the balcony and the gems are illuminated in the dark room so the player can aim to reach those points through the level design instead of directly telling the player.

Unfortunately, I focused on the game aspect and forgot about the menu and miss time to learn to integrate one with the Phaser 3 engine.
